Assignment_file_HydraNotes.md, before:

# Tutorial practice file "Hydranotes" to practice forking and pull requests
this assignment is based on Linebaugh and Rediker's **Many Headed Hydra**

## Introduction

## Chapter 1: Wreck of the Sea-Venture
![The Wreck of the Sea Venture by Christopher Grimes](https://minerdescent.files.wordpress.com/2011/11/wreck-of-the-sea-venture-2.jpg)
* This chapter lays the foundations of the ideas of freedom from enclosure the author use of the story about the shipwrecked crew of the Sea Venture in the Bermuda islands in 1609 and William Shakespeare's Version of the story, _The Tempest_.
* The stories tell of the origins of capitalism and colonization through world trade and the building of empires that caused the uprooting of peoples and perpetuated the spreading of the desire for the old communes and the use of violence to stamp out the rebellions. 
* There are 4 major themes in the origins and development of the English Atlantic
	1. Expropriation: The transformation of land and labor into commodities. The enclosing of the commons led to the need to resettle "The Swarms of Idle Persons"  With the formation of the Virginia Company in 1606, England began to take over the Atlantic and used their ships as locations for and forms of transportation for the idle swarms (p 15-16).
	2. Alternative Ways of Life: The desire of many of the shipwrecked people and some of those who later made it to Virginia was to live a life of leisure. They wanted a society that were antinomian, anarchist, pacifist, egalitarian, and hunter and gather.  A return to the commons is what lead many to rebel and run away to live with the Native Americans who still lived in similar societies.  
	3. Patterns of Cooperation and Resistance: People of different backgrounds and professions working together for profit and or survival, such as the crew and passengers working together to try and save the ship during the Hurricane.  Also when the officials of the Virginia Company organized labor to build new ships to reach Virginia. The motley crews that formed in rebellion and stayed on the Island.  The resistance that continued once they reached Virginia and Thomas Gates' efforts to enforce the law and retain his men in Jamestown.
	4. Imposition of Class Discipline: "Terror created boundaries" (p 35). Ship and sailor were essential to the creation and growth of the English Atlantic and new laws and harsh punishments were put in place as instruments of control.  Just after finally reaching Virginia Thomas Gates put in place new laws; 37 articles with the purpose of military labor, keeping settlers apart from the Native Americans and deterring challenges to his rule.
* "Military men transformed Bermuda and Virginia from places of 'liberty and the fullness of sensuality' to places of bondage, war, scarcity, and famine" (p 35).

## Chapter 2: Hewers of Wood and Drawers of Water
	* *More emphasis on violence and terror: Foucault. Discipline, forcing people to become something.*
* **The Curse of Labor**
	* Continuance of “the analysis…of the processes of expropriation, exploitation, and colonization” (40).
	* Wide use of the term, describing the “invisible, anonymous, and forgotten, even though they transformed the face of the earth by building the infrastructure of ‘civilization’” (42).
* **The Labors of the Hewer and Drawer**
	* “Three main functions: they undertook the labors of expropriation [clearing land, building infrastructure]; they built the ports and the ships and provided the seafarers for Atlantic commerce; and they daily maintained the households” (43).  They made the rise of merchant capitalism possible.
* **Terror**
	* “In England, the expropriation of the peasantry was accompanied by systematic violence and terror, organized through the criminal sanction, public searches, the prisons, martial law, capital punishment, banishment, forced labor, and colonization” (49).  Very severe, very public.  Measures of control.
* The Specter of Hercules
	* Targets of the “holy war”: 1. Caliban (Natives)  2. Canannite (dispossessed commoner)  3. Pirates  4. Land rovers, petty thieves, highway robbers (underclass who rejected wage labor)  5. Assassins (threat to kings)  6. Amazons (empowered women)  7. Anabaptists

## Chapter 3: "A Blackymore Maide Named Francis"

## Chapter 4: The Divarication of the Putney Debates

## Chapter 5: Hydrarchy: Sailors, Pirates and the Maritime State
![The Tar's Triumph, or Bawdy-House Battery](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-JsKdCmWQ3Wk/Ux5lKcyAJ9I/AAAAAAAABMw/pPDWZiAMGPU/s1600/The+Tar%27s+Triumph+or+Bawdy+House+Brawl+Charles+Mosley+1749+NMM.jpg)
[For more information on this image please visit The British Museum](http://www.britishmuseum.org/research/collection_online/collection_object_details.aspx?objectId=3223873&partId=1)

* This chapter looks at the wooden world of the 18th century and argues that the ship was both the key component for expanding capitalism and the setting for resistance against this capitalist system. The majority of the concepts in this book can be seen in greater detail in _Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea:Merchant Seamen, Pirates, and the Anglo-American Maritime -world, 1700-1750_ by Marcus Rediker.
* The authors contend that in the last half of the 17th century capitalist had organized the exploitation of human labor in four way.  
1. The commercial estate for the capitalist production of agriculture.
2. The production of petty goods that use to be the market sector for artisans.
3. The putting-out system, which saw a circulation of goods to Africa and the Americas from Europe.
4. The mode of production that united the previous three. namely the ship.
* Yet this ship , while vital to carry on the triangular trade also created a collective group that resisted at every opportunity. For example, Linebaugh and Rediker argue that Jack Tar was always seen at the forefront whenever there was a riot, mutiny, or piracy. 
* Such militancy against the capitalist world resulted in the wooden world being "turned upside down" with the rise in piracy during what is known as "The Golden Age of Piracy". The authors maintain that a pirate ship turned the capitalist world upside down as it was an egalitarian society  that practiced true democracy. 
* This does give the reader pause. It maybe true that pirate crews often voted on matters and positions such as prizes taken, captains, boatswains, and mates, it is also true that this was not always true and depended on each ship. It could also be argued that pirates where part of this capitalist system as they were trying to increase their profits with as little work as possible. Recent historians of the Golden Age of Piracy such as Ed Fox argue that Rediker's interpretation of the Golden Age is flawed. [For more info on Ed Fox click here.](http://www.etfox.co.uk/index.php)

## Chapter 6: "The Outcasts of the Nations of the Earth"

## Chapter 7: A Motley Crew in the American Revolution

## Chapter 8: The Conspiracy of Edward and Catherine Despard

## Chapter 9: Robert Wedderburn and Atlantic Jubilee

## Conclusion: Tyger! Tyger!

Commit message:

Notes on Chapter 4 Mnay Headed Hydra
Six notes and a picture for chapter 4

Assignment_file_HydraNotes.md, after:

﻿# Tutorial practice file "Hydranotes" to practice forking and pull requests
this assignment is based on Linebaugh and Rediker's **Many Headed Hydra**

## Introduction

## Chapter 1: Wreck of the Sea-Venture
![The Wreck of the Sea Venture by Christopher Grimes](https://minerdescent.files.wordpress.com/2011/11/wreck-of-the-sea-venture-2.jpg)
* This chapter lays the foundations of the ideas of freedom from enclosure the author use of the story about the shipwrecked crew of the Sea Venture in the Bermuda islands in 1609 and William Shakespeare's Version of the story, _The Tempest_.
* The stories tell of the origins of capitalism and colonization through world trade and the building of empires that caused the uprooting of peoples and perpetuated the spreading of the desire for the old communes and the use of violence to stamp out the rebellions. 
* There are 4 major themes in the origins and development of the English Atlantic
	1. Expropriation: The transformation of land and labor into commodities. The enclosing of the commons led to the need to resettle "The Swarms of Idle Persons"  With the formation of the Virginia Company in 1606, England began to take over the Atlantic and used their ships as locations for and forms of transportation for the idle swarms (p 15-16).
	2. Alternative Ways of Life: The desire of many of the shipwrecked people and some of those who later made it to Virginia was to live a life of leisure. They wanted a society that were antinomian, anarchist, pacifist, egalitarian, and hunter and gather.  A return to the commons is what lead many to rebel and run away to live with the Native Americans who still lived in similar societies.  
	3. Patterns of Cooperation and Resistance: People of different backgrounds and professions working together for profit and or survival, such as the crew and passengers working together to try and save the ship during the Hurricane.  Also when the officials of the Virginia Company organized labor to build new ships to reach Virginia. The motley crews that formed in rebellion and stayed on the Island.  The resistance that continued once they reached Virginia and Thomas Gates' efforts to enforce the law and retain his men in Jamestown.
	4. Imposition of Class Discipline: "Terror created boundaries" (p 35). Ship and sailor were essential to the creation and growth of the English Atlantic and new laws and harsh punishments were put in place as instruments of control.  Just after finally reaching Virginia Thomas Gates put in place new laws; 37 articles with the purpose of military labor, keeping settlers apart from the Native Americans and deterring challenges to his rule.
* "Military men transformed Bermuda and Virginia from places of 'liberty and the fullness of sensuality' to places of bondage, war, scarcity, and famine" (p 35).

## Chapter 2: Hewers of Wood and Drawers of Water
	* *More emphasis on violence and terror: Foucault. Discipline, forcing people to become something.*
* **The Curse of Labor**
	* Continuance of “the analysis…of the processes of expropriation, exploitation, and colonization” (40).
	* Wide use of the term, describing the “invisible, anonymous, and forgotten, even though they transformed the face of the earth by building the infrastructure of ‘civilization’” (42).
* **The Labors of the Hewer and Drawer**
	* “Three main functions: they undertook the labors of expropriation [clearing land, building infrastructure]; they built the ports and the ships and provided the seafarers for Atlantic commerce; and they daily maintained the households” (43).  They made the rise of merchant capitalism possible.
* **Terror**
	* “In England, the expropriation of the peasantry was accompanied by systematic violence and terror, organized through the criminal sanction, public searches, the prisons, martial law, capital punishment, banishment, forced labor, and colonization” (49).  Very severe, very public.  Measures of control.
* The Specter of Hercules
	* Targets of the “holy war”: 1. Caliban (Natives)  2. Canannite (dispossessed commoner)  3. Pirates  4. Land rovers, petty thieves, highway robbers (underclass who rejected wage labor)  5. Assassins (threat to kings)  6. Amazons (empowered women)  7. Anabaptists

## Chapter 3: "A Blackymore Maide Named Francis"
![Dorothy Hazzard preaching in the port of Bristol, 1640]( https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CdCadOhXEAEJlDx.jpg)

 - In this chapter, Linebaugh and Rediker introduce the era of the English Revolution. They use a close reading of a text written by a white deacon of a radical sect in Bristol, England about the death of a black maid, Francis, who was a devout member of the church to illustrate “some of the more revolutionary notions of the day” 72. 
 - The authors use the story of Francis to highlight both the importance of the unified actions of radical groups (hydra-heads) in carrying out the English Revolution and the ultimate division brought on by the capitalist economy afterward throughout the British Atlantic.
 - They establish the role of antinomian religious sects in providing an organizational platform for revolt across ethnic and gender lines that play an integral part in the overthrow of Charles I.  [For more information on the role of the Baptist in the English Revolution in Bristol]( http://biblicalstudies.org.uk/pdf/bq/23-8_348.pdf)
- Questions of theology that sprout from disagreements about the role of women and the role of slavery divided these groups and allowed capitalism to conquer in the short term. 
- The authors show the criminalization of women and work and how the author of the original text and his compatriots enacted a “devalorization of women’s labor of reproduction” that established the necessary hierarchical system 93.  
- The authors also show the development of slavery as racialized to allow these same white male leaders, simultaneously, take part in the Atlantic trade and clear their conscience. 

## Chapter 4: The Divarication of the Putney Debates

## Chapter 5: Hydrarchy: Sailors, Pirates and the Maritime State
![The Tar's Triumph, or Bawdy-House Battery](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-JsKdCmWQ3Wk/Ux5lKcyAJ9I/AAAAAAAABMw/pPDWZiAMGPU/s1600/The+Tar%27s+Triumph+or+Bawdy+House+Brawl+Charles+Mosley+1749+NMM.jpg)
[For more information on this image please visit The British Museum](http://www.britishmuseum.org/research/collection_online/collection_object_details.aspx?objectId=3223873&partId=1)

* This chapter looks at the wooden world of the 18th century and argues that the ship was both the key component for expanding capitalism and the setting for resistance against this capitalist system. The majority of the concepts in this book can be seen in greater detail in _Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea:Merchant Seamen, Pirates, and the Anglo-American Maritime -world, 1700-1750_ by Marcus Rediker.
* The authors contend that in the last half of the 17th century capitalist had organized the exploitation of human labor in four way.  
1. The commercial estate for the capitalist production of agriculture.
2. The production of petty goods that use to be the market sector for artisans.
3. The putting-out system, which saw a circulation of goods to Africa and the Americas from Europe.
4. The mode of production that united the previous three. namely the ship.
* Yet this ship , while vital to carry on the triangular trade also created a collective group that resisted at every opportunity. For example, Linebaugh and Rediker argue that Jack Tar was always seen at the forefront whenever there was a riot, mutiny, or piracy. 
* Such militancy against the capitalist world resulted in the wooden world being "turned upside down" with the rise in piracy during what is known as "The Golden Age of Piracy". The authors maintain that a pirate ship turned the capitalist world upside down as it was an egalitarian society  that practiced true democracy. 
* This does give the reader pause. It maybe true that pirate crews often voted on matters and positions such as prizes taken, captains, boatswains, and mates, it is also true that this was not always true and depended on each ship. It could also be argued that pirates where part of this capitalist system as they were trying to increase their profits with as little work as possible. Recent historians of the Golden Age of Piracy such as Ed Fox argue that Rediker's interpretation of the Golden Age is flawed. [For more info on Ed Fox click here.](http://www.etfox.co.uk/index.php)

## Chapter 6: "The Outcasts of the Nations of the Earth"

## Chapter 7: A Motley Crew in the American Revolution

## Chapter 8: The Conspiracy of Edward and Catherine Despard

## Chapter 9: Robert Wedderburn and Atlantic Jubilee

## Conclusion: Tyger! Tyger!
