tutorial-fork-pullreq.md, before:

# Tutorial Assignment for forking and pull requests in GitHub
Source:  - https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/
## Goals: Learn to edit a file collaboratively
- Learn how to "fork" a folder of files from GitHub to your own computer so you can work with it
- Refresh your skills on writing in Markdown
- Collaborate on a set of notes on Linebaugh and Rediker's Many Headed Hydra
- Refresh your skills on 'commits' in GitHub
- Learn how to send a "pull request" to the master file.

## Fork the repository (folder)

- Log into GitHub and go to http://github.com/Garrigus. Find the "tutorial-forking-pullreq" repository.
- Click on the "fork" button in the upper right hand corner. This copies the files in the repository into your GitHub account.

![fork screenshot](/../tutorial-forking-pullreq/fork_screenshot.png?raw=true "Optional Title")

## Clone the repository to your computer
- Now you need to copy the files to your own computer so you can work on your own version. This is called "cloning".
- In your forked version, click on the green "Clone or Download" button on the right side of the screen
- You can do this in GitHub Desktop by choosing "Clone in Desktop". Or you can copy a zipfile to your computer and unpack it there.
- If you use the zipfile method, then "add" this new folder or repository to your GitHub Desktop list of repositories.

![clone screenshot](tutorial-forking-pullreq/clone_screenshot.png)

## Add some content to the file named "Assignment-file-HydraNotes.md"
- Open that file in a plain text editor.
- Choose one of the chapters and add 4 or 5 notes about the content of that chapter, as a bulleted list. Use Markdown format.
- You can add other content if you want -- images, links, etc.
- After you save your changes, make a "commit" that describes the changes in GitHub Desktop.
- Don't forget to "publish" your local repository(folder) and to "sync" any changes you made.

## Make a "Pull Request"
- Once you've added the content that you wanted, "committed" your changes locally, and synced those changes up to GitHub, it's time to propose that the masterfile accept your changes.
- This is called a "pull request"
- Go to your on-line account in GitHub, and find your forked repository
- Click on the the green button labeled "Compare and pull request"
- This will take you to a page where you can describe your changes and make a case that they should be included in the masterfile.
- Then click on "Send pull request". This will submit your change to the owner of the masterfile, Dr. Garrigus, and he will evaluate your work.

this section needs more clarity or more steps

## Done!
- You have forked a repository, made changes, and contributed to a document!
- This is technology you can use to collaborate with other historians and/or teachers for writing, collecting data, or even programming.

Commit message:

add screenshot and clarification
add screenshots and clarfiy steps towards the end of the tutorial

tutorial-fork-pullreq.md, after:

# Tutorial Assignment for forking and pull requests in GitHub
Source:  - https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/
## Goals: Learn to edit a file collaboratively
- Learn how to "fork" a folder of files from GitHub to your own computer so you can work with it
- Refresh your skills on writing in Markdown
- Collaborate on a set of notes on Linebaugh and Rediker's Many Headed Hydra
- Refresh your skills on 'commits' in GitHub
- Learn how to send a "pull request" to the master file.

## Fork the repository (folder)

- Log into GitHub and go to http://github.com/Garrigus. Find the "tutorial-forking-pullreq" repository.
- Click on the "fork" button in the upper right hand corner. This copies the files in the repository into your GitHub account.

![fork screenshot](/../tutorial-forking-pullreq/fork_screenshot.png?raw=true "Optional Title")

## Clone the repository to your computer
- Now you need to copy the files to your own computer so you can work on your own version. This is called "cloning".
- In your forked version, click on the green "Clone or Download" button on the right side of the screen
- You can do this in GitHub Desktop by choosing "Clone in Desktop". Or you can copy a zipfile to your computer and unpack it there.
- If you use the zipfile method, then "add" this new folder or repository to your GitHub Desktop list of repositories.

![clone screenshot](tutorial-forking-pullreq/clone_screenshot.png)

## Add some content to the file named "Assignment-file-HydraNotes.md"
- Open that file in a plain text editor.
- Choose one of the chapters and add 4 or 5 notes about the content of that chapter, as a bulleted list. Use Markdown format.
- You can add other content if you want -- images, links, etc.
- After you save your changes, they will appear in your repository in GitHub Desktop. Add a short and clear summary and description that describes the changes you made.
- Click "commit to master" and then "sync" any changes you made.

## Make a "Pull Request"
- Once you've added the content that you wanted, "committed" your changes locally, and synced those changes up to GitHub, it's time to propose that the masterfile accept your changes.
- This is called a "pull request"
- Go to your on-line account in GitHub, and find your forked repository.
- Click on the the green button labeled "Compare and pull request"
- This will take you to a page where you can describe your changes and make a case that they should be included in the masterfile.
- Then click on "Send pull request". This will submit your change to the owner of the masterfile, Dr. Garrigus, and he will evaluate your work.

## Done!
- You have forked a repository, made changes, and contributed to a document!
- This is technology you can use to collaborate with other historians and/or teachers for writing, collecting data, or even programming.
